.TH CGROUP_NETSHAPER 8 "April 2025" "Version 0.1.0" "System Administration"

.SH NAME
cgroup_netshaper \- Network bandwidth shaping for control groups

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B insmod
.I cgroup_netshaper.ko
.br
.B modprobe
.I cgroup_netshaper

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cgroup_netshaper
is a Linux kernel module that implements network rate limiting for cgroups.
It integrates with the cgroup v2 hierarchy to provide per-cgroup network
bandwidth limits without requiring complex tc/iptables configuration.

.SH USAGE
The module creates the following control files in each cgroup directory:

.TP
.B cgroup.net_shaper.rate
Controls the maximum bandwidth rate in bytes per second.

.TP
.B cgroup.net_shaper.burst
Controls the allowed burst size in bytes.

.TP
.B cgroup.net_shaper.stats
Displays statistics about the cgroup's network usage.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To limit a process to 1 MB/s bandwidth:

.RS
.nf
# Load the module
sudo insmod cgroup_netshaper.ko

# Create a cgroup
mkdir -p /sys/fs/cgroup/limited

# Set limits (1MB/s with 100KB burst)
echo 1048576 > /sys/fs/cgroup/limited/cgroup.net_shaper.rate
echo 102400 > /sys/fs/cgroup/limited/cgroup.net_shaper.burst

# Move a process into the cgroup
echo $PID > /sys/fs/cgroup/limited/cgroup.procs
.fi
.RE

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /sys/fs/cgroup/*/cgroup.net_shaper.rate
Per-cgroup bandwidth rate setting.

.TP
.I /sys/fs/cgroup/*/cgroup.net_shaper.burst
Per-cgroup burst size setting.

.TP
.I /sys/fs/cgroup/*/cgroup.net_shaper.stats
Per-cgroup statistics.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cgroups (7),
.BR systemd.resource-control (5)

.SH BUGS
Please report bugs at https://github.com/yourusername/cgroup-netshaper/issues

.SH AUTHOR
cgroup-netshaper Contributors